Summary of Analysis
The data analysis conducted on the PyCity Schools data served several purposes. First, the analysis merged student data with school data so that students and schools could be compared across more categories and shown how they relate to one another. 
Then, a district summary was created to show the total statistics in the given district, such as total student, total budget, and average scores. This will serve as a useful tool to compare individual schools and students against the population.

Next, a school summary table was created to show the statistics by school. A few new metrics were calculated to be included in this summary: Total School Budget, Per Student Budget, Percent of Students Passing Math, Percent of Students Passing Reading, and the Percentage of Students Passing Overall. These newly calculated metrics can help compare potential factors that may influence student success across schools. After this, a spending summary was created to compare test scores across spending ranges. 

Next, school size was used calculated, and schools were sorted into categories based on school size: small, medium, or large. Finally, math, reading, and overall passing scores were compared by school size and then by school type (Charter or District).

Conclusions
The data analysis, as described above, shows three critical conclusions. First, the most consistent component that was correlated to student success across all the comparative tables is school type. Charter schools consistently had higher scores and a higher percentage of overall passing students than District schools. This remained true even when accounting for budget, budget per student, and school size. This is apparent in the Highest-Performing Schools data frame, where all top 5 schools are charter schools. These charter schools have overall passing rates in the 90th percentile. Additionally, the bottom 5 schools were all district schools, will overall passing rates in the 50th percentiles.

Additionally, size of the school did not seem to have a great influence on student success. Between small schools, less than 1,000 students, and medium schools, 1,000 to 2,000 students, the average scores hold fairly consistent. However, there is a big decrease in students’ scores when comparing to large schools, 2,000 to 5,000 students. More research is needed in this area since there are confounding factors at play here: 7 of the 8 charter schools fall into the medium or small category while district schools all fall into the large category. Size of school and type of school may be influencing each other. It is undetermined based on the current data how school size or school type (or both) are influencing each other, as well as how they are influencing student success, as measured by average scores and overall passing rates. 

In summary, the most consistent correlating factor with student success is type of school. Charter schools consistently produced higher math and reading scores, and higher overall passing rates. Budget, especially per student budget, did not seem to correlate to student success. Most importantly, more research is needed to determine the effect of school size on student success. Are charter schools better are producing successful students because of their smaller size? To what extent does size make charter schools more effective? Would district schools of a smaller size be more successful? Would charter schools of a larger size be as successful as the small ones? Answering these questions is key to understanding the relationship between these two factors. 
